<html>
<head>
    <title>SimpleStub: Additional Features</title>
</head>
<body>
<h2>Passing arguments to constructors</h2>

<p>In this first examples, the base objects were assumed to have no-arg constructors. That is not always the case.
    When arguments are passed to its <code>createStub</code> me>thod, SimpleStub will look for a matching constructor
    and call it. For example:</p>

<div class="source">
        <pre>
        <b>abstract class</b> FakeObject <b>extends</b> BaseObject {
            FakeObject(int count, String... names) {
                super(count, names);
            }

            :
            behavior needed for test
            :
        }

        @Test
        public void testListofString() {
            FakeObject fake = Stub.createStub(8, "Joe", "Sam", "Susan");
            :
            rest of test
            }
        }
</pre>
</div>

<h2>Detecting unexpected method calls</h2>
<p>In most cases, calls to methods not specifically implemented can be treated as no-ops. There are some cases, however,
where it is useful to be able to find out if an unexpected call is being made. Calling <code>createStrictStub</code>
will create an object that throws an UnexpectedMethodCallException if one of the generated methods is called.</p>


<h2>The @SimpleStub annotation</h2>
<p>This annotation can be used to identity a stub implementation. Setting the "strict" parameter to true will
cause it to have the <i>strict</i> behavior, even when creating it with <code>createStub</code>. The usage is optional.</p>

</body>
</html>