<html>
<head>
    <title>SimpleStub: Getting Started</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>Getting Started</h2>

    <p>Add the following to your Maven project:</p>
    <pre>
        &lt;dependency&gt;
            &lt;group&gt;com.meterware.simplestub&lt;/group&gt;
            &lt;artifact&gt;simplestub&lt;/artifact&gt;
            &lt;version&gt;1.2.0&lt;/version&gt;
            &lt;scope&gt;test&lt;/scope&gt;
        &lt;/dependency&gt;
    </pre>
    <p>Note that this will pull in Javassist. If you prefer to use ASM, use the <a href="asm.html">simplestub-asm dependency</a> instead.</p>


    <h2>Quickstart</h2>
    <p>The simplest use of a stub in unit test comes when the system under test (SUT) requires an object, but the test
        doesn't cause it to be called, or ignores anything it does. Simplestub handles this very simply.
    </p>
    <p>In the following test, the SUT requires an <code>ObjectOutput</code> instance, but never uses it. SimpleStub
    creates the appropriate stub easily with a call to <code>createStub</code>.</p>
    <div class="source">
        <pre>
        @Test
        <b>public void</b> whenObjectIsInstantiated_OutputObjectIsAvailable() {
            MyClass sut = <b>new</b> MyClass(<span style="color:blue">Stub.createStub(ObjectOutput.class)</span>);

            assertNotNull(sut.getOutput());
        }</pre>
    </div>
    <p>
        This works for both interfaces and abstract classes. If the test were to invoke one of the abstract methods,
        it would return null, false, or zero, depending on the return type.</p>

    <p>
        Sometimes a test will use some of the methods of an abstract class, but not all. Again, this is handled simply
        by implementing the ones needed for the test, and ignoring the rest.
    </p>
    <div class="source">
        <pre>
        <b>public abstract class</b> ObjectOutputStub <b>implements</b> ObjectOutput {

            <b>private</b> List&lt;<b>byte</b>[]&gt; bytes = <b>new</b> ArrayList&lt;<b>byte</b>[]&gt;
            <b>boolean</b> closed;

            <b>byte</b>[][] getWrittenBytes() { <b>return</b> b.toArray(<b>new byte</b>[][b.size()]); }
            <b>boolean</b> isClosed() { <b>return</b> closed; }

            <b>public void</b> write(<b>byte</b>[] b) { bytes.add(b); }
            <b>public void</b> close() { closed = true; }
        }</pre>
    </div>
    <p>
        The same invocation can be used to instantiate this test object.
    </p>
    <div class="source">
         <pre>
         <b>import</b> com.meterware.simplestub.Stub

         ObjectOutputStub objectOutput = Stub.createStub(ObjectOutputStub.<b>class</b>);</pre>
     </div>

</body>
</html>